README.md, before:

# SNES Gamepad

Version: `1.1.0`

A TypeScript library providing a simple interface for using USB SNES gamepads in HTML5 game projects.

For more on the :video_game: Gamepad API, see https://w3c.github.io/gamepad/ and https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Gamepad_API.

## Quick Start

The SNES Gamepad library allows you to bind callback functions to SNES gamepad events, such as `onConnected` or `onStartButtonPressed`.

```javascript
import snesGamepad = VictorySoftworks.IO.Gamepad.SnesGamepad;

let mapping = new snesGamepad.KiwitataSnesGamepadMapping();
let gamepad = new snesGamepad.SnesGamepad(navigator, window, mapping);

gamepad.onConnected(() => {
  console.log('SNES gamepad connected!');
});

gamepad.onDisconnected(() => {
  console.log('SNES gamepad disconnected.');
});

gamepad.onBButtonPressed(() => {
  console.log('Samus jumps into the air!');
});

gamepad.enable();
```

## Manually Reading Pressed Buttons

If you need to read the list of pressed gamepad buttons manually, you can do so with the `getPressedButtons` method.

```javascript
let pressedButtons = gamepad.getPressedButtons();
```

The `getPressedButtons` method returns an Array of `SnesGamepadButton` enumerated values representing each button that is currently pressed:

- `SnesGamepadButton.Up`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Down`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Left`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Right`
- `SnesGamepadButton.A`
- `SnesGamepadButton.B`
- `SnesGamepadButton.X`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Y`
- `SnesGamepadButton.LeftBumper`
- `SnesGamepadButton.RightBumper`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Select`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Start`

If no buttons are being pressed on the gamepad, or if there is no gamepad connected, this method returns an empty Array.

### Vanilla JavaScript

If you are using the compiled `SnesGamepad` library in a vanilla JavaScript project, the enumerated values are cast to plain strings, such as `"Up"`, `"A"`, or `"Start"`.

## Method Reference

| Method                | Parameters             | Description                                                                                                                                       |
|-----------------------|------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| enable                | None                   | Enables a connected SNES gamepad. If no gamepad is connected, the browser will wait for one to be connected before firing an `onConnected` event. |
| disable               | None                   | Disables an SNES gamepad. The browser will stop listening for gamepad connections and button press events until `enable` is called.               |
| reset                 | None                   | Disables an SNES gamepad and clears all registered callbacks.                                                                                     |
| onConnected           | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when an SNES gamepad is connected.                                                                           |
| onDisconnected        | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when an SNES gamepad is disconnected.                                                                        |
| onUpButtonPressed     | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the up button is pressed on the directional pad.                                                        |
| onDownButtonPressed   | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the down button is pressed on the directional pad.                                                      |
| onLeftButtonPressed   | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the left button is pressed on the directional pad.                                                      |
| onRightButtonPressed  | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the right button is pressed on the directional pad.                                                     |
| onAButtonPressed      | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the A button is pressed.                                                                                |
| onBButtonPressed      | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the B button is pressed.                                                                                |
| onXButtonPressed      | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the X button is pressed.                                                                                |
| onYButtonPressed      | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the Y button is pressed.                                                                                |
| onLeftBumperPressed   | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the left bumper is pressed.                                                                             |
| onRightBumperPressed  | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the right bumper is pressed.                                                                            |
| onSelectButtonPressed | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the select button is pressed.                                                                           |
| onStartButtonPressed  | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the start button is pressed.                                                                            |
| getPressedButtons     | None                   | Returns an Array of `SnesGamepadButton` enumerated values representing the gamepad buttons currently being pressed.                               |

## Available Mappings

The SNES Gamepad library comes with two button mappings:

- `KiwitataSnesGamepadMapping`: Button mapping for [SNES gamepads manufactured by Kiwitata](http://amzn.to/2pp29ab).
- `StandardSnesGamepadMapping`: Button mapping for [SNES gamepads that follow the W3C spec](https://w3c.github.io/gamepad/#remapping).

Pull requests for additional mappings are welcome!

## Single-Player Only

The SNES Gamepad library does not currently support multiple gamepads connected to the same computer.

Commit message:

Added notes about placement of manual button press checking

README.md, after:

# SNES Gamepad

Version: `1.1.0`

A TypeScript library providing a simple interface for using USB SNES gamepads in HTML5 game projects.

For more on the :video_game: Gamepad API, see https://w3c.github.io/gamepad/ and https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Gamepad_API.

## Quick Start

The SNES Gamepad library allows you to bind callback functions to SNES gamepad events, such as `onConnected` or `onStartButtonPressed`.

```javascript
import snesGamepad = VictorySoftworks.IO.Gamepad.SnesGamepad;

let mapping = new snesGamepad.KiwitataSnesGamepadMapping();
let gamepad = new snesGamepad.SnesGamepad(navigator, window, mapping);

gamepad.onConnected(() => {
  console.log('SNES gamepad connected!');
});

gamepad.onDisconnected(() => {
  console.log('SNES gamepad disconnected.');
});

gamepad.onBButtonPressed(() => {
  console.log('Samus jumps into the air!');
});

gamepad.enable();
```

## Manually Reading Pressed Buttons

If you need to read the list of pressed gamepad buttons manually, you can do so with the `getPressedButtons` method.

```javascript
let pressedButtons = gamepad.getPressedButtons();
```

The `getPressedButtons` method returns an Array of `SnesGamepadButton` enumerated values representing each button that is currently pressed:

- `SnesGamepadButton.Up`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Down`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Left`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Right`
- `SnesGamepadButton.A`
- `SnesGamepadButton.B`
- `SnesGamepadButton.X`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Y`
- `SnesGamepadButton.LeftBumper`
- `SnesGamepadButton.RightBumper`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Select`
- `SnesGamepadButton.Start`

If no buttons are being pressed on the gamepad, or if there is no gamepad connected, this method returns an empty Array.

You are encouraged to place your manual checking for button presses inside an `onConnected` callback, preferably within a `setInterval` or `requestAnimationFrame` function that can be cancelled if the `onDisconnected` callback fires.

### Vanilla JavaScript

If you are using the compiled SNES Gamepad library in a vanilla JavaScript project, the enumerated values are cast to plain strings, such as `"Up"`, `"A"`, or `"Start"`.

## Method Reference

| Method                | Parameters             | Description                                                                                                                                       |
|-----------------------|------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| enable                | None                   | Enables a connected SNES gamepad. If no gamepad is connected, the browser will wait for one to be connected before firing an `onConnected` event. |
| disable               | None                   | Disables an SNES gamepad. The browser will stop listening for gamepad connections and button press events until `enable` is called.               |
| reset                 | None                   | Disables an SNES gamepad and clears all registered callbacks.                                                                                     |
| onConnected           | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when an SNES gamepad is connected.                                                                           |
| onDisconnected        | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when an SNES gamepad is disconnected.                                                                        |
| onUpButtonPressed     | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the up button is pressed on the directional pad.                                                        |
| onDownButtonPressed   | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the down button is pressed on the directional pad.                                                      |
| onLeftButtonPressed   | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the left button is pressed on the directional pad.                                                      |
| onRightButtonPressed  | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the right button is pressed on the directional pad.                                                     |
| onAButtonPressed      | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the A button is pressed.                                                                                |
| onBButtonPressed      | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the B button is pressed.                                                                                |
| onXButtonPressed      | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the X button is pressed.                                                                                |
| onYButtonPressed      | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the Y button is pressed.                                                                                |
| onLeftBumperPressed   | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the left bumper is pressed.                                                                             |
| onRightBumperPressed  | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the right bumper is pressed.                                                                            |
| onSelectButtonPressed | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the select button is pressed.                                                                           |
| onStartButtonPressed  | `callback: () => void` | Binds a callback function to execute when the start button is pressed.                                                                            |
| getPressedButtons     | None                   | Returns an Array of `SnesGamepadButton` enumerated values representing the gamepad buttons currently being pressed.                               |

## Available Mappings

The SNES Gamepad library comes with two button mappings:

- `KiwitataSnesGamepadMapping`: Button mapping for [SNES gamepads manufactured by Kiwitata](http://amzn.to/2pp29ab).
- `StandardSnesGamepadMapping`: Button mapping for [SNES gamepads that follow the W3C spec](https://w3c.github.io/gamepad/#remapping).

Pull requests for additional mappings are welcome!

## Single-Player Only

The SNES Gamepad library does not currently support multiple gamepads connected to the same computer.
